# BOW-Classification

Create a Bag of words based matching/categorization solution on the MNIST-fashion database.
 
Download [Fashion Mnist dataset](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist/blob/master/README.md)
Use the Train and Test set images in the link above.

Functions to create:
- **CreateVisualDictionary()**: computes and save the visual dictionary. Write your own k-mean clustering code.
- How did you choose the optimum value of the number of clusters? Mention (<100 words) in assignment report.
- **ComputeHistogram()**: takes as input a feature vector and the visual dictionary matrix and generates the histogram using soft assignment (giving weight to the next nearest neighbor)
- **MatchHistogram()**: the function compares two histograms and returns the distance.

Write an entry script RunAll_Your_IITRopar_ID.py, which extracts features from the images and then calls the *CreateVisualDictionary()* function. The most closest (visual) word to the mean of the cluster should be saved in a folder directory for later inspection.

This is for visualising what do the dictionary words represent? Then the script calls the *ComputeHistogram()* function to create the histograms for all the training and Test images. 

*MatchHistogram()* then is called for the Test set images and the Label (category) for each Test image is generated by assigning the class of the nearest neighbor (in the Training set).
 
Display the overall classification accuracy, class wise accuracy, precision and recall.
